chapter 11 (#710)
mlr-org/mlr3book: book/chapters/chapter11/large-scale_benchmarking.qmd

Increasing the number of datasets leads to 'large-scale' experiments that may require significant computational resources, so in @sec-hpc-exec we will introduce `r ref_pkg("mlr3batchmark")`, which connects `mlr3` with `r ref_pkg("batchtools")` (@batchtools), which provides methods for managing and executing experiments on `r index('high-performance computing')` (HPC) clusters.
Finally, in @sec-benchmark-analysis we will demonstrate how to make use of `r ref_pkg("mlr3benchmark")` to formally analyze the results from large-scale benchmark experiments.

Throughout this chapter, we will use the running example of benchmarking a random forest model against a logistic regression as in @couronne2018random.
We will also assume that you have read @sec-pipelines and @sec-technical.
We make use of `ppl("robustify")` (@sec-prepro-robustify) for automating common preprocessing steps.

> We also set a featureless baseline as a fallback learner (@sec-fallback) and set `"evaluate"` as our encapsulation method, which logs errors/warnings to an external file that can be read by `batchtools` (we will return to this in @sec-batchtools-monitoring).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also set a featureless baseline as a fallback learner (@sec-fallback) and set `"evaluate"` as our encapsulation method, which logs errors/warnings to an external file that can be read by `batchtools` (we will return to this in @sec-batchtools-monitoring).
```
```suggestion
We also set a featureless baseline as a fallback learner (@sec-fallback) and set `"try"` as our encapsulation method, which logs errors/warnings to an external file that can be read by `batchtools` (we will return to this in @sec-batchtools-monitoring).
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also set a featureless baseline as a fallback learner (@sec-fallback) and set `"try"` as our encapsulation method (@sec-encapsulation), which logs errors/warnings to an external file that can be read by `batchtools` (we will return to this in @sec-batchtools-monitoring).
```

lrn_lr = as_learner(ppl("robustify", learner = lrn_lr) %>>% lrn_lr)
lrn_lr$id = "logreg"
lrn_lr$fallback = lrn_baseline

> lrn_lr$encapsulate = c(train = "evaluate", predict = "evaluate")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lrn_lr$encapsulate = c(train = "try", predict = "try")
```

# random forest pipeline
lrn_rf = lrn("classif.ranger")
lrn_rf = as_learner(ppl("robustify", learner = lrn_rf) %>>% lrn_rf)
lrn_rf$id = "ranger"
lrn_rf$fallback = lrn_baseline

> lrn_rf$encapsulate = c(train = "evaluate", predict = "evaluate")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lrn_rf$encapsulate = c(train = "try", predict = "try")
```

}
```

```{r}
odatasets[NumberOfFeatures < 16,
  c("data_id", "name", "NumberOfFeatures", "NumberOfInstances")]
```

> Note that `odatasets()` returns a `data.table` with many more meta-features than shown here; this table can itself be used to filter further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `list_oml_data()` returns a `data.table` with many more meta-features than shown here; this table can itself be used to filter further.
```

### Task {#sec-openml-task}

OpenML tasks are built on top of OpenML datasets and additionally specify the target variable, the train-test splits to use for resampling, and more.

> Note that this differs from `mlr3` `Task` objects, also contain information about the target, but not about the resampling procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this differs from `mlr3` `Task` objects, which do not contain information about the resampling procedure.
```

resamplings = as_resamplings(otask_collection)
```

Alternatively, if we wanted to filter the collection further, say to a binary classification experiment with six tasks, we could run `r ref("list_oml_tasks()")` with the task IDs from the CC-18 collection as argument `task_id`.

> We can either use the `list_oml_task()` argument to request the number of classes to be `2`, or we can make use of the fact that the result of `list_oml_tasks()` is a `data.table` and subset the resulting table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can either use the `list_oml_tasks()` argument to request the number of classes to be `2`, or we can make use of the fact that the result of `list_oml_tasks()` is a `data.table` and subset the resulting table.
```

```

To query the ids of jobs in the respective categories, see `r ref("findJobs()")` and, e.g., `r ref("findNotSubmitted()")` or `r ref("findDone()")`.

> In our case, we can see all experiments finished and none expired (i.e. were removed from the queue without ever starting, `Expired : 0`) or crashed (`Error : 0`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our case, we can see all experiments finished and none expired (i.e., were removed from the queue without ever starting, `Expired : 0`) or crashed (`Error : 0`).
```

{{< include ../../common/_optional.qmd >}}

> In general, we recommend using `mlr3batchmark` for scheduling simpler `mlr3` jobs on an HPC however we will also briefly show you how to use `batchtools` without `mlr3batchmark` for finer control over your experiment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, we recommend using `mlr3batchmark` for scheduling simpler `mlr3` jobs on an HPC however, we will also briefly show you how to use `batchtools` without `mlr3batchmark` for finer control over your experiment.
```

> In general, we recommend using `mlr3batchmark` for scheduling simpler `mlr3` jobs on an HPC however, we will also briefly show you how to use `batchtools` without `mlr3batchmark` for finer control over your experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, we recommend using `mlr3batchmark` for scheduling simpler `mlr3` jobs on an HPC, however, we will also briefly show you how to use `batchtools` without `mlr3batchmark` for finer control over your experiment.
```

summarizeExperiments()
```

> Our jobs can now be submitted to the cluster; by not specifying specific job IDs *all* experiments are submitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our jobs can now be submitted to the cluster; by not specifying specific job IDs, *all* experiments are submitted.
```
